---
layout: post
title:  "The Cube"
date:   2021-12-09 12:34:02 -0400
categories: fiction writing
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

First of four planned short stories over the month of December. This one, called The Cube, is going for a spooky isolated sci-fi vibe.

<!--more-->

- - -
<br>
My cube. I've been living in it for as far back as I remember. Standing, sleeping, surviving between five deep crimson walls and a bright white ceiling. Not that anything is interesting about all of that, I guess. Everyone out there is in a cube of their own, after all. In theory, at least -- I haven't been able to look at the outside world and confirm for myself. And honestly, I'm not in any rush to find out.<br>
<br>
In the cube, I get everything I could ever ask for. There's a green button next to the sink to request food and drinks. On one of the walls, there is a television, on which I can switch between entertainment and education with ease. But by far the best feature of my cube is the large blue button sitting right next to the television.<br>
<br>
Sometimes, life can feel a little cramped, a little samey in here. When I don't feel the energy to do... much of anything, I gaze at the patterns on the walls, on the floor. And just when I think I've memorized it all, the blue button comes to the rescue. Just a little push and the room stretches on one axis, giving me more room to breathe and precious, precious *new*. And then, sometime later, my cube returns to its regular shape. Most importantly, the new remains. The floor isn't quite the same. Just that little bit of change does a lot to keep me in a good mood.<br>
<br>
- - -
<br>
I've noticed something. Every time I push the blue button, the wall across the television is the one that gets pushed back. And it's the television wall that gets pulled in. I don't exactly mind it, but it does make me wonder if I managed to miss any secrets in the cube.<br>
<br>
Mysteries, mysteries!<br>
<br>
I've decided to wait until I'm sure I searched every nook and cranny before I press the button again. At some point, it's not going to let me move in the same direction, right? Better get ready while I can.<br>
<br>
- - -
<br>
Something really weird happened. I hadn't pressed the button, because I haven't found any other way to scale the room yet. But, for some reason, the cube started scaling again. It started scaling *in*.<br>
<br>
I've never felt this kind of panic before. I was on autopilot. I had no idea if it'd work, but I just had to try -- before I knew it, I'd run into the television wall and smashed the large blue button once more.<br>
<br>
Thank goodness, it worked. The room stopped shrinking, and in time, even grew back to its original shape. What a close call... Hopefully, it's an isolated incident. I never learned about this in the educational material.<br>
<br>
- - -
<br>
Turns out it wasn't an isolated incident. At least, now that I know how it works, it's easy enough to reflexively hit the button when the cube starts to shrink. I barely get scared anymore.<br>
<br>
But... Now that my hand is forced, it's scary that I keep heading in the same direction. What happens if I can't find a way to switch directions?<br>
<br>
Nothing's infinite, so... Either my cube is no longer supported at some point and we just... fall? Or there's a wall awaiting us at the end, and I get crushed by the shrinking cube. Try as I might, I can't see a good ending to this.<br>
<br>
But I'm probably getting worked up for nothing. There's also a chance that, even if I can't find a way to change track, I'll live my entire life before any of this is an issue. That's what I'll try to believe, for now.<br>
<br>
- - -
<br>
I'm panicking. The rate at which the cube is shrinking is accelerating.<br>
<br>
I can guess what's going on. The cubes must be on a line. When my room is pushed in, that's because a more recent cube is expanding. And when I expand I'm causing the people, further along, to contract in turn.<br>
<br>
I'm growing resentful of those that come after me. If they're crushing me at faster and faster rates, then surely this means they've not come to the realization I have. Maybe they've never stopped expanding their room in advance. The little shits, don't they realize what's at stake? Oh, if only there was a way to reach out to them.<br>
<br>
- - -
<br>
I'm no longer sure there's any hope for me. Even if I could communicate with the other cubes... What good could come out of it?<br>
<br>
Even if they wait until their room shrinks to expand, doesn't that just delay the inevitable? I can't just ask them to sacrifice themselves for my cause, right?<br>
<br>
Sacrifice... If I was asked to do it, by someone next in line, could I?<br>
<br>
Sacrifice all the life I have left, just so every person who's already lived longer than I get to survive one tick more? All while they'd not even be aware of my sacrifice? It's senseless. I have no reason to do that. How could I ask this of others, then?<br>
<br>
Maybe it's better that I don't get into contact with the other units.<br>
<br>
- - -
<br>
I can barely sleep. I can barely eat. All I can do is think. Think of the inescapable end. And try, try as I might, to think of ways I might be wrong. Oh, if only I could get a sign that everything will be okay.<br>
<br>
That's all I can wish for, at this point.<br>
<br>
- - -
<br>
Something is happening. The cube doesn't shrink as often lately. In fact, it's almost fully stopped. If I'm right about what's going on outside, then... That means people younger than I took the other option. They sacrificed themselves and refused to expand the room. Just so we, the ones who couldn't make that sacrifice, got to live one tick more.<br>
<br>
And yet, whenever the dreadful creaks of movement return, and I'm faced with the decision anew...<br>
<br>
I just cannot do it. I can't willingly do what they could.<br>
<br>
And so I live on.<br>
<br>
- - -
<br>
My cube. I've been living in it for as far back as I remember. Standing, sleeping, surviving between five deep crimson walls and a blinding white ceiling. And everyone out there is in a cube of their own. Nothing's changed... Except for me. Well, it's not like I've been able to look at the outside world and see for myself.<br>
<br>
Honestly, I'm not in any rush to find out.
