---
layout: post
title:  "The Card"
date:   2021-12-19 12:34:02 -0400
categories: fiction writing
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Second of four planned short stories over the month of December. This one, called The Card, is going for a... modern economics-themed fable? Not sure what I'd call it.

<!--more-->

- - -

It was an unexceptional Monday<br>
until an unwanted guest visited my dwelling.<br>
Against my better judgment, I let him in.<br>
And the Businessman, as he entered, had this to say.<br>
<br>
"Your left shoe is to be forfeit in the name of profit;<br>
Here and now, I expect great dividends from it.<br>
Worry not, it will be returned and more.<br>
You'll get more shoes than you bargained for."<br>
<br>
Having said that, and little more,<br>
He took my shoe, went out the door.<br>
I was relieved and even glad.<br>
All things considered, a shoe isn't that bad.<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
It was a perfectly serviceable Tuesday<br>
until an unwanted guest visited my dwelling.<br>
Against my better judgment, I let him in.<br>
And the Businessman, as he entered, had this to say.<br>
<br>
"Your stove is to be forfeit in the name of profit;<br>
Here and now, I expect great dividends from it.<br>
Worry not, it will be returned and more.<br>
You'll get more stoves than you bargained for."<br>
<br>
I wanted to scream. "What about my shoe? What about my laptop?"<br>
"What about what you've already taken? When does this stop?"<br>
But before I could find my voice, he had already fled.<br>
And I was left in a yet emptier shed.<br>
<br>
When did the Businessman come, for who does he stay?<br>
Through what power did he find his sway?<br>
Maybe at one point, his promises were sound.<br>
What's for certain: when he returns, I'll stand my ground.<br>
